it blows my mind to think about how many
people are terrified to do what it is
that I'm doing this very moment which is
recording myself on video for many
people maybe for you that is a very
scary concept and I get it I've been
there as well sometimes you don't like
the way you look on camera or you don't
like the way you sound on camera or you
see that little record button blinking
and you think
oh my oh my goodness oh crap what's
what's happening I'm recording I gotta
speak I gotta say something intelligent
What If I Stumble over my words
don't worry this video is being created
to give you the confidence and hopefully
encouragement to get you past that
hurdle of recording videos because the
reality is when you incorporate this
medium into your content the upside is
huge for the very reason that most
people want to consume video content
over other types of content so through
this video I'm going to give you a
couple helpful tips to ensure that
you're an effective Communicator for
video content hey everyone my name is
Wade Patterson and my YouTube channel is
dedicated to helping you become a more
impactful Communicator as you can maybe
tell by the little plaque right above me
I am passionate about impactful
communication and that comes in all
sorts of forms that comes in public
speaking that comes in social media
content that comes in one-on-one
conversations and today we're talking
about video communication can
communicating to a camera lens and if
these are topics that you think could
help you in this realm of being a more
impactful Communicator please subscribe
to my channel it is my mission to put
out a lot of great video content to help
make you the best Communicator as
possible hopefully I will become the
best Communicator as possible as well if
I don't stumble over my words it is my
goal to create as much valuable content
as possible to build your confidence and
ensure that you become a great
communicator and enjoy success in
business and personal life because of
your way you can communicate to others
so before we get into the tips of
specifically how you can become more
comfortable
being looked at by the camera lens and
hitting that record button let's start
with the upside of why video content is
important and the first thing I'd throw
out to you is this hypothetical question
if you had something wrong with your
vehicle let's say you needed to replace
the battery
how would you prefer to learn how to do
that would you prefer to pick up a car
manual and read through that find the
page where the battery information is
and read through step-by-step text
written instructions on how to do that
maybe or would you like to watch a one
minute 30 second YouTube video that
shows somebody specifically with your
make and model of vehicle pointing where
the battery is lifting up that battery
and then replacing it which would be the
better content or the content you would
find more enjoyable to consume in that
task my guess is that you answered video
not everyone does not 100 of people but
I would say more than 90 percent of
people prefer to receive content in the
form of video and if that's the case
with 90 of people that stats just made
up but it's it's close I'm sure then why
aren't you putting out that video
content for others to consume in
whatever you can help other people with
for myself it's teaching about public
speaking and communication but you I'm
sure are an expert in something maybe
you're a great basketball player and you
want to share tips on how people can
improve their basketball skills or maybe
you are passionate about
reading books and you want to share
about how you can
speed read that is such an obscure
example who knows nothing's coming to
mind
but these are the types of things
whatever you're good at and you want to
help other people become better at it
video content is the way to do it so why
do people avoid putting out video well
one of the top reasons and you've
probably heard this before is the idea
that people don't like how they look and
don't like how they sound on camera and
that's natural that's completely normal
to hear that people get uncomfortable
with seeing themselves in that Medium
but there's a couple things to remember
here the first of course you've probably
heard this as well
everyone knows what you look and sound
like when you're at a party or an event
they're talking to you anyways despite
the fact you look and sound exactly like
you would look and sound on a video so
it's silly to think other people won't
or will be put off or find it odd seeing
you communicate on video
but going beyond that I think it's a
matter of comfort and repetition and
familiarity and one of the best pieces
of advice I heard a few months ago was
somebody saying that you don't have to
post the videos you record so if you're
getting more familiar you're building
the habits of shooting video content you
can always record that on your phone and
save it to your drafts nobody is forcing
you to go and post that on Instagram or
threads or Tick Tock or any other social
media platform
you can just record that video and now
you've done it you've familiarized
yourself with the process and you can
keep doing that over time setting those
goals for yourself over the next month
I'm going to shoot 30 videos a video
every single day that's a great goal to
set and no one again is forcing you to
post that content so getting yourself
familiar with talking on the camera is
going to help make it not such a scary
thing to do but then there's the issue
of I always forget what I'm going to say
when the record button is going which
makes sense that's a lot of pressure If
you hit record and you're expecting
yourself in one take to remember every
single thing you're going to talk about
that is going to get very difficult and
those of you who watch closely in my
videos you may know that content is
spliced together it's not like I shoot
the video and then I take the full eight
minute video 12 minute video and just
upload it directly to YouTube no I'm
doing some editing I edit so that I can
add graphics on the side but I also
splice out Clips together because if I
fumble my words I don't want to say oh
I've got to start over completely from
scratch I can just take the place I
messed up
and then splice it together with the
next piece just cropping out that dead
air in between and it's these jump cuts
that make the video flow and it doesn't
have to be perfect and if you're
wondering how you can remember what
you're going to say one tip is to have a
little sticky note that is either
underneath or just to the left of your
camera but I will say don't use a note
that has everything written verbatim
because people can tell I don't have
anything there right now but if I did
have everything written down on a piece
of paper and I was reading it off
verbatim and I was talking to you the
audience you would know that I'm reading
because my eyes are looking there
they're not looking there and while
people sometimes use things like
teleprompters some are better than
others and they are quite convincing but
you can still see those eye movements a
bit what I request or what I say a jazz
not request for you to do is to have a
sticky note with just the points that
you want to address so if you're giving
tips on how to be a successful digital
marketer and your video is five great
tips just have those five tips listed in
bullet points because you as the expert
you should know those situations good
enough and if you want you can give
yourself notes on the side that you
refer to so one example of this I'll
show you right now I have another laptop
on the floor as I'm recording this and
it has a few more detailed notes written
down but you don't see me looking down
at the floor reading these notes I can
just stop in between sentences
look and then crop the next piece
together so you never tell that I'm
seeing those in between but I'm
memorizing short forms of information so
that I can perhaps speak for 30 seconds
pause read my next notes which aren't
verbatim they're just highlights of what
I want to talk about read them
understand them turn back to the camera
and deliver another thing you're going
to want to do when delivering video
content is smile more than you think you
need to smile it is a weird phenomenon
this idea that we want to be really
smiley on camera but if you do watch
videos of people talking who aren't
smiling very often they're just
presenting like this
there's a lot of things that happen one
their voice tends to go more monotone
they look mad or annoyed they don't even
look neutral but when you smile
naturally it it lifts up your voice it
gives you a bit more energy and it's an
acceptable thing for the audience to
want to watch they will welcome that
content because it's inviting when I'm
smiling as I often try to do in my
videos hopefully for you the audience
you find that encouraging to keep
watching the content because it's kind
of that friendly environment and it
keeps it interesting this was a piece of
advice I got from a friend who said
smile 50 more than you think you need to
smile when creating video content and it
for me it's been an incredibly important
piece and I think it will work for you
as well and if you're smiling more when
you go to watch back that content you
may like how you're presenting because a
lot of people when they see themselves
on camera when they're nervous and
they're not smiling that's part of the
thing they don't like they see these
engaging people creating videos who are
smiling a lot and they're not doing that
so try that out try smiling more looking
right at the camera and bringing your
audience in another tip that you can do
that won't make the process of creating
video content seem so daunting is to
batch content together people who have
been watching my channel who are Keen
observers May notice that sometimes
there's three or four videos in a row
where I'm wearing the same hat or the
same shirt and sure I could change my
outfit and try to be a little more
sneaky about it but I'll be honest with
you it's because on average I'll record
three or four videos at the start of
each month all at once and then
throughout the month I'll edit those
videos and typically try to post weekly
content why do I do that because it's a
bit of an effort I know you can't see
the entire setup I'm working with here
but I've got some lights on me from here
and here I've got a little studio room
so thankfully it's not too difficult to
set up but I've got pillows up in the
window blocking out the light I have
another light down here I have my
microphone which is connected to my
computer so I have to bring a couple
computers down to this room I've got
extra light set up here and this room
isn't always perfectly set up to record
sometimes we're drying laundry in here
or there's different things going on so
it takes probably half an hour for me to
set up the room so that I can record
video content and if I'm only doing one
video at a time I'll be honest it
doesn't really feel worth it to me
instead and this is the tip for you if
you can batch content at once maybe
shoot four videos at one once instead of
just one video so you do the work you do
the research you build your notes and
then you have a sitting and you plan to
record for a couple hours but boom
you're gonna have four videos done at
that point in time and if you're posting
every two weeks that is two months of
content if you're posting weekly that is
a full month of content that you can
share out on social media batching
videos makes the process a lot less
daunting a lot easier two final tips on
recording video content and these aren't
necessarily about getting over the fear
of a recording video but they're
important things to keep in mind the
first is that sound is often overlooked
so when people create video content
usually they're so concerned with the
visuals but they're not worried about
how they sound as well if possible I
mean it's great to have a professional
microphone but if that's not possible no
worries but try to be an invite in an
environment where there's not a lot of
distracting background noise if you're
only able to use your phone and the
internal microphone that's okay but be
in a quiet room if you're outside and
there's noisy traffic and the wind is
going it's going to be really
distracting and it doesn't matter how
beautiful your visuals are people aren't
going to want to watch that video
content because it's too distracting
it's not pleasant to listen to so really
focus on sound as much as you focus on
the visuals focus on sound and equal
amount it is that important and the
second bonus tip here for creating great
video content is afterward if you're
creating little clips for social media
include subtitles in your videos we know
this is important because 80 of videos
on social media are viewed without the
sound on there are great apps for
helping you do this cap cut is one of
those apps that I personally use but by
having the subtitles along with your
video if you know four out of five
videos on social media are not being
viewed with the sound on you will know
that everyone will be able to get the
message because they can read the
subtitles versus only 20 who would get
the message if you didn't have subtitles
on so those are a few bonus tips for
what I found works really well with
creating video content I really hope
this video helps you get over that fear
of creating video I would love to hear
in the comments what's holding you back
what stopped you from putting out video
content in the past and was this video
helpful if you have any additional
questions one thing I'm passionate about
doing to the best of my ability is
jumping in the comments answering
questions so let me know let's make this
a two-way conversation and I sincerely
hope that you start putting out more
video because it true really can be
beneficial if this video was helpful to
you please subscribe to my channel I
will continue putting out great videos
just like this one but thank you so much
for taking the time to watch this video
and I will see you on the next one
people are more scared of public
speaking than they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it